In this video, we're going to do a quick comparison
of the traditional approaches for building confidence intervals,
which are actually built in the Python,
and the approaches you've already seen using bootstrapping in this lesson.
There are lots of different names for
hypothesis tests and the way that we build confidence intervals.
Like a one sample T- test,
which is used for the population mean,
or two sample T- test,
which is used for comparing two means.
There is also a paired T- test often used for comparing an individual to themselves,
or a Z- test, or a chi-square test, or an F-test.
There are so many hypothesis tests which are
linked to the way that we create the confidence intervals.
And the bootstrapping approach can actually be used in place of any of these.
In this video, we will illustrate this by example.
First, let's read in our data and the libraries.
I've also set the seed so you can follow along.
Next, let's look at a confidence interval for the difference in means.
Here's the bootstrap approach that you did in an earlier quiz.
While that runs, I'm going to go look at StackOverflow
for a post that could be helpful for finding the difference in means.
By finding confidence interval for a T-test,
difference in comparison in means,
I came across the stack overflow post.
If we scroll down,
you can see that this is the documentation that
they used to get their confidence interval.
So we already read in Numpy,
I'm going to pull this part out.
And here, you can see they're just setting up some random data to work with.
So let's actually pull that. We don't need it.
We want our data to be a comparison of
those who drink coffee and the heights who don't drink coffee.
So we just want the heights of each of those groups,
so actually, it's going to look a lot like this.
But instead of a bootstrap sample,
we just want it from our original sample set.
And this print statement will only work in 2.7.
Notice that intervals for the bootstrapping method and the built
in using the traditional method are nearly identical.